[Docs][Serve] Speed up weights loading (#3073)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/serving/sky-serve.rst

.. code-block:: yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 7-13

    service:
      replicas: 2
      readiness_probe: /v1/models

    resources:
      accelerators: A100:1
      any_of:
        - cloud: gcp
          image_id: projects/my-project/global/machineImages/image-with-model-weights
        - cloud: aws
          image_id:
            us-east-1: ami-0729d913a335efca7
            us-west-2: ami-050814f384259894c

Notice that AWS needs a per-region image since its image is only valid in a single region. This requires to configure a lot of images on the cloud console, but it can significantly speed up the weights loading.

Use Docker Container as Runtime Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also :ref:`use docker containers as runtime environment <docker-containers-as-runtime-environments>`. This can be done by creating a Docker container that has the weights preloaded, and then using the container to launch the VMs for serving:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 7

    service:
      replicas: 2
      readiness_probe: /v1/models

    resources:
      accelerators: A100:1
      image_id: docker:docker-image-with-model-weights

> 

Reviewer: We should still have `run` section here, as we don't run the ENTRYPOINT of the docker image?

Reviewer: Maybe we can just recommend `docker run` in the `run` section directly?

Reviewer: Sorry, I mean instead of specifying the docker image in `image_id:`, we just ask the user to specify `docker run custom-image` in the `run` section of our yaml.

Author: This was originally posted by zongheng [here](https://skypilot-org.slack.com/archives/C03J2KQQZSS/p1706847782816049?thread_ts=1706841328.945889&cid=C03J2KQQZSS) and actually I'm a little bit confused after a second look: will it accelerate the process? We still need to download from the docker registry and what is the difference compared to downloading from, say, hugging face..? cc @concretevitamin for a look

Author: Oh Zhanghao just explain that to me in the following comments. nvm :)

  These settings will not take effect if you have an existing controller (either
  stopped or live).  For them to take effect, tear down the existing controller
  first, which requires all services to be terminated.

> Speedup Setup in Model Serving

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Speeding Up Replica Setup
```

------------------------------

> When serving AI models, the setup process like dependencies installation takes a lot of time on the cold-start time. According to one experiment we found that, dependencies installation can take 45% of times (271s out of 608s) of the setup process. To speed up this process, you can use the following methods:

Reviewer 2: Explicitly mention downloading model weights.  It's not commonly thought as being the same as dependency installation.

> Use Machine image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use a Custom Image for VMs
```
Replace "Machine image" throughout?

"Machine image" is only GCP parlance and they  have another type of images. AWS calls it AMI.

> When serving AI models, the setup process like dependencies installation and model weights downloading takes a lot of time on the cold-start time. According to one experiment we found that, dependencies installation can take 45% of times (271s out of 608s) of the setup process, and 16% for model weights downloading (98s out of 608s). To speed up this process, you can use the following methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When serving AI models, the setup process like dependencies installation and model weights downloading may take a lot of time. To speed up this process, you can use the following methods:
```

The deleted parts do not feel like belong to docs.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can use a custom image that has the dependencies preinstalled (also probably model weights preloaded). This can be done by creating a VM, installing the dependencies, and then creating a custom image from the VM on the cloud console. Then, you can use the custom image to launch the VMs for serving:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use a custom image that has the dependencies preinstalled and, optionally, model weights downloaded. This can be done by creating a VM, installing the dependencies, and then creating a custom image from the VM on the cloud console. Then, you can use the custom image to launch the VMs for serving:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

>   :emphasize-lines: 7-8

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :emphasize-lines: 8-9
```

    service:
      replicas: 2
      readiness_probe: /v1/models

    resources:
      ports: 8080
      accelerators: A100:1
      cloud: gcp
      image_id: projects/my-project/global/machineImages/image-with-dependency-installed

>     # Here goes the setup and run commands...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Followed by setup and run commands.
```

> Notice that the :code:`cloud` field must be specified when :code:`image_id` is used. You can use :code:`any_of` in :code:`resources` to make it support multiple clouds:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that the :code:`cloud` field must be specified when :code:`image_id` is used. 

To support launching on multiple clouds, use :code:`any_of` in :code:`resources` :
```

Avoid using "you" in docs

.. code-block:: yaml

>   :emphasize-lines: 7-13

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :emphasize-lines: 8-14
```

    service:
      replicas: 2
      readiness_probe: /v1/models

    resources:
      ports: 8080
      accelerators: A100:1
      any_of:
        - cloud: gcp
          image_id: projects/my-project/global/machineImages/image-with-dependency-installed
        - cloud: aws
          image_id:
            us-east-1: ami-0729d913a335efca7
            us-west-2: ami-050814f384259894c

>     # Here goes the setup and run commands...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Followed by setup and run commands.
```

> Notice that AWS needs a per-region image since its image is only valid in a single region. This requires to configure a lot of images on the cloud console, but it can significantly speed up the dependency installation. It also takes the advantage of the in-region fast network, which delivers a quicker download speed of the machine image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that AWS needs a per-region image since an AMI image is associated with a particular region. While this requires creating several images on the cloud console, it can significantly speed up the dependency installation. This approach also takes advantage of the in-region fast network, which delivers a quicker download speed of the machine image.
```

> Use Docker Container as Runtime Environment
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use Docker Containers as Runtime Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

> You can also :ref:`use docker containers as runtime environment <docker-containers-as-runtime-environments>`. This can be done by creating a Docker container that has the dependencies preinstalled, and then using the container to launch the VMs for serving:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also :ref:`use docker containers as runtime environment <docker-containers-as-runtime-environments>`. This can be done by creating a Docker image that has the dependencies preinstalled and (optionally) model weights downloaded, and then using the container image to launch the VMs for serving:
```

.. code-block:: yaml

>   :emphasize-lines: 7

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  :emphasize-lines: 8
```

    service:
      replicas: 2
      readiness_probe: /v1/models

    resources:
      ports: 8080
      accelerators: A100:1
      image_id: docker:docker-image-with-dependency-installed

>     # Here goes the setup and run commands...

Reviewer 2: ditto

> This is easier to configure than machine images, but it may have a longer startup time than machine images since it needs to pull the docker image from the registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is easier to configure than machine images, but it may have a longer startup time than machine images since it needs to pull the docker image from the registry in addition to the usual VM setup.
```

> This is easier to configure than machine images, but it may have a longer startup time than machine images since it needs to pull the docker image from the registry.

Reviewer 2: Have we actually timed these two methods?

Author: I'm feeling like it is hard to make a fair comparison - it is largely dependent on the base docker/machine image used... Though I'll try to make some benchmarks and see the results 🫡

        - cloud: aws
          image_id:
            us-east-1: ami-0729d913a335efca7
            us-west-2: ami-050814f384259894c

    # Followed by setup and run commands.

Notice that AWS needs a per-region image since an AMI image is associated with a particular region. While this requires creating several images on the cloud console, it can significantly speed up the dependency installation. This approach also takes advantage of the in-region fast network, which delivers a quicker download speed of the machine image.

Use Docker Containers as Runtime Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also :ref:`use docker containers as runtime environment <docker-containers-as-runtime-environments>`. This can be done by creating a Docker image that has the dependencies preinstalled and (optionally) model weights downloaded, and then using the container image to launch the VMs for serving:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 8

    service:
      replicas: 2
      readiness_probe: /v1/models

    resources:
      ports: 8080
      accelerators: A100:1
      image_id: docker:docker-image-with-dependency-installed

    # Followed by setup and run commands.

> 

Reviewer: We could mention something about how this docker image should be built, especially, it could have SkyPilot runtime pre-built. Something like the following would be useful (could you help giving an concrete example for how to install vllm, and download the image in the Dockerfile below for a better reference, i.e. replacing the line `# Your dependencies installation and model download code goes here` with actual workable commands for serving vllm+mistral):

``````
Your docker image can have all skypilot dependencies pre-installed to further reduce the setup time, you could try building your docker image based from our base image. The `Dockerfile` could look like the following:
```Dockerfile
FROM docker:berkeleyskypilot/skypilot-k8s-gpu:latest

# Your dependencies installation and model download code goes here
```
``````

  These settings will not take effect if you have an existing controller (either
  stopped or live).  For them to take effect, tear down the existing controller
  first, which requires all services to be terminated.

Speedup Weights Loading in Large Model Serving
----------------------------------------------

> When serving large models, the weights of the model are loaded from the cloud storage / public internet to the VMs. This process can take a long time, especially for large models. To speed up the weights loading, you can use the following methods:

Reviewer: It seems the benefit of using machine image or docker image is more for reducing the setup time, instead of the the model weight downloading time, as they are mostly for packaging the dependencies and not neccessarily means it will speed up the download of the image or the model, which should be limited by the network bandwidth instead.

Should we rewrite the section as reducing the overhead of environment setup?

Author: I guess there are some speedups if using a machine image? That should be optimized by the cloud provider which makes it faster than a plain network download?

Reviewer: Machine images are intended to be used in a single region. It can be used in another region for launching a VM, but there will involve data transfer from one region to another. Cloud provider should have optimized it, but we probably want to be careful about the wording to avoid having a impression that all the benefits comes from weight loading.
